Often in a program, you'll have, more than
one comparison
to make and, those comparisons will be
related to each other.
When that occurs, you need to use, what
are called the logical operators.
And we're gonna start off by looking at
how the logical operators, work.
Generally, we will look at some specific,
python examples.
Logical operators are and, or and not, and
what you are seeing in
front of you are the truth tables for, the
logical or boolean operators.
So, let's take a look at the and, truth
table first, and, is the first of the
logical operators.
And in the headings, you see relational
expression
one, RE1, relational expression two, RE2,
and result.
And this table, demonstrates what occurs
when, two relational
expressions RE1 and RE2, are combined
using the end.
Logical operator.
So for example, if RE1 is True, and RE2 is
True, then the, complete expression RE1
and RE 2, is True.
Then you'll see if RE1 is true, and RE2 is
False then, the whole expression is False.
If RE1 is False and RE2 is True, the
result is still False.
And then finally if, RE1 is False and RE2
is False, then of course, the result is
False.
Now let's move down and look at the or,
truth table.
Here we see that if, RE1 and RE2 are True,
then the result is True.
If RE1 is True and RE2 is False, the
result is still True.
If RE1 is, False and RE2 is True, the
result is True.
And only if RE1 is False and RE2 is
False, is the whole, expression False, and
then finally.
Although we are not going to look at it in
this lesson, is the, not Truth Table.
Not simply, negates a bullion value, so
for example,
not True is False and not False is True.
There are, programing situations where we
need not, but for this
particular lesson we are only going to
look at and or.
So now, that we've seen how they work,
theoretically let's
look at a couple of simple example of, and
and or.
Then we'll see them again, later in the
lessons.
So, we're gonna bring up the python shell.
So, the first thing we're gonna do, is
create a couple of variables.
Now I'm gonna demonstrate how and works
using.
These two variables, and we have hours
worked equals 39, salary equal 39,000.
So, we might have a, payroll program, that
will have
the, relational expressions, hours worked,
greater than 40 and.
Salary, less than or equal to 50,000.
In other words, this is how we probably
pay
for overtime based on, whether not a
worker has worked
over 40 hours in that pay period for a
week
and their salary is less than or equal to,
50,000.
So you see that's false.
And it's false because hours worked is not
greater than 40.
It's actually, less than 40.
So, this first expression, hours worked
greater than 40,
is False, so that makes the complete
expression, False.
All right, let's look at another example,
this time using, or.
So here we're gonna write a, password
program.
Actually just a very small fragment.
We're gonna set our password equal to
GUEST.
Uppercase guest.
Then, we're gonna look and see what the
user enters for their password.
[SOUND] And here we're going to say if
they
entered, guest as lowercase, or they
entered it as uppercase.
Then that will be okay.
So, the way we do that is by using the
logical,
operator or, saying, the password can be
equal to lowercase guest.
Or, the password can be equal to, all
upper case which is what it's set to.
So, if we hit Enter, we see that's true.
So, that's how the logical operators work.
I guess I can show you not real quick,
just to demonstrate how it works.
We can say, not 100 equals 100, and that
will return False because 100 equals 100
is True.
So, not True is False.
And then we could say something like, not
100 less than 1.
That returns True because, of course, the
relational
expression is False, and not False is
True.
So, those are the logical operators, and
like I
said earlier we will be working with them
more.
As we, demonstrate how the if statements
work.
But, we're finished with this lesson for
now, and we're ready to move on,
to actually, making real comparisons in
python,
by examining how, the simple, if statement
works.
And, that's the topic, of the next lesson.
[BLANK_AUDIO]